---
layout: post
title: 
date: 2018-11-23 16:51:50
tag: [minipost]
---

glibc のライブラリは序章を除くと以下の構成になってるので、今読んでわかりそうなところと興味あるところだけざっと読むので十分だろうな。

- Error Reporting: How library functions report errors.
- Memory: Allocating virtual memory and controlling paging.
- Character Handling: Character testing and conversion functions.
- String and Array Utilities: Utilities for copying and comparing strings and arrays.
- Character Set Handling: Support for extended character sets.
- Locales: The country and language can affect the behavior of library functions.
- Message Translation: How to make the program speak the user’s language.
- Searching and Sorting: General searching and sorting functions.
- Pattern Matching: Matching shell “globs” and regular expressions.
- I/O Overview: Introduction to the I/O facilities.
- I/O on Streams: High-level, portable I/O facilities.
- Low-Level I/O: Low-level, less portable I/O.
- File System Interface: Functions for manipulating files.
- Pipes and FIFOs: A simple interprocess communication mechanism.
- Sockets: A more complicated IPC mechanism, with networking support.
- Low-Level Terminal Interface: How to change the characteristics of a terminal device.
- Syslog: System logging and messaging.
- Mathematics: Math functions, useful constants, random numbers.
- Arithmetic: Low level arithmetic functions.
- Date and Time: Functions for getting the date and time and formatting them nicely.
- Resource Usage And Limitation: Functions for examining resource usage and getting and setting limits.
- Non-Local Exits: Jumping out of nested function calls.
- Signal Handling: How to send, block, and handle signals.
- Program Basics: Writing the beginning and end of your program.
- Processes: How to create processes and run other programs.
- Inter-Process Communication: All about inter-process communication.
- Job Control: All about process groups and sessions.
- Name Service Switch: Accessing system databases.
- Users and Groups: How users are identified and classified.
- System Management: Controlling the system and getting information about it.
- System Configuration: Parameters describing operating system limits.
- Cryptographic Functions: Passphrase storage and strongly unpredictable bytes..
- Debugging Support: Functions to help debugging applications.
- Threads: Functions, constants, and data types for working with threads.
- Internal Probes: Probes to monitor libc internal behavior.
- Tunables: Tunable switches to alter libc internal behavior.

ざっと見たけどきになるのはこいつらかなあ。

`Error Repoting`, `Memory`, `Character Handling`, `String and Array Utilities`, `Character Set Handling`, `Locales`, `Searching and Sorting`, `I/O Overview`, `I/O on Streams`, `File System Interface`, `Syslog`, `Date and Time`, `Resource Usage And Limitation`, `Signal Handling`, `Program Basics`, `Processes`, `Inter-Process Communication`, `Job Control`, `Name Service Switch`, `System Management`, `Cryptographic Functions`, `Threads`

こんなに読めるのかは知らない。
